[Data studios] [enterprise 24.1] update docker compose with connect pieces (#78)
seqeralabs/docs: platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1.0/enterprise/data-studios.mdx

---
title: "Data studios deployment"
description: Deploy Seqera Platform with Data studios
date: "12 Jun 2024"
tags: [docker, compose, kubernetes, data, studios, deployment]
---

> This guide assumes that all prerequisites have been met. Visit the corresponding **Prerequisites** page for your infrastructure provider.

Author: I will rephrase It to the docker-compose specific case, but FYI there are more general prerequisites 
 mentioned in docs tasks https://github.com/seqeralabs/platform/issues/6979

```yaml
  connect-proxy:
    image: cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/data-studio/tower-connect-proxy:0.6.14
    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - frontend
      - backend
    ports:
      - 9090:9090
    restart: always
    depends_on:
      - redis

  connect-server:
    image: cr.seqera.io/private/nf-tower-enterprise/data-studio/tower-connect-server:v0.6.14
    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - backend
    ports:
      - 7070:7070
    restart: always
```

Data studios RSA key is required for the data studios functionality. Generate your key and provide the path to it in the
`TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH` variable in the `data-studios.env` file. Next mount the pem file in the `backend` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

See example in the configuration with `data-studios-rsa.pem` file mounted in the `backend` service:
```yaml
  backend:
    volumes:
      - $PWD/data-studios-rsa.pem:/data-studios-rsa.pem
```

## Kubernetes
TBD

## DNS setup
Proxy domain (`CONNECT_PROXY_URL`) has to be a subdomain of main platform domain (example: if platform domain is

> `tower.io`, then proxy domain should be `connect.tower.io`).

Reviewer: The domain can be different from `connect`:  any valid subdomain will work.

Data studios require a wildcard DNS record that will match request for non-existent subdomains.

> It is specified by a `*` as part of the domain name, example: `*.tower.io`. It should be pointed to the port 9090.

Reviewer: They also need a valid wildcard ssl certificate to cover the third level domain.

We might want to suggest to use only a third level domain if possible, so that they can use a cheaper certificate.

Author: Great catches! Thanks for the comments, I will change that now.

---
title: "Data studios deployment"
description: Deploy Seqera Platform with Data studios
date: "12 Jun 2024"
tags: [docker, compose, kubernetes, data, studios, deployment]
---

## Docker compose

This guide assumes that all services will be run in the same container as the rest of the platform services.

> To run data studios in docker compose setup uncomment following values in the `_templates/docker/tower.env` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run Data Studios in `docker compose` setup uncomment following values in the `_templates/docker/tower.env` file:
```

```dotenv

> # Data studios settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Data Studios settings
```

    platform: linux/amd64
    env_file:
      - data-studios.env
    networks:
      - backend
    ports:
      - 7070:7070
    restart: always
```

An RSA key is required for the Data Studios functionality. Generate your key and provide the path to it in the
`TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH` variable in the `data-studios.env` file. Next mount the `pem` file in the `backend` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

See this example in the configuration with `data-studios-rsa.pem` file mounted in the `backend` service:
```yaml
  backend:
    volumes:
      - $PWD/data-studios-rsa.pem:/data-studios-rsa.pem
```

## DNS setup

The proxy domain (`CONNECT_PROXY_URL`) has to be a subdomain of main platform domain (example: if the platform domain is
`tower.io`, then the proxy domain should be `example.tower.io`).
Data Studios requires a wildcard DNS record that will match requests for non-existent subdomains.
It is specified by a `*` as part of the domain name, example: `*.tower.io`. It should be pointed to the port 9090.

Example of setup:
```
*.tower.io -> 9090
tower.io -> 8000
```

Additionally, a valid wildcard ssl certificate to cover the third level domain is required.

> !!! warning It is recommended to use only a third level domain if possible, as the cost may increase with the number of subdomains.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note
We recommend using only a third-level domain if possible, as costs may increase with the number of subdomains.
:::
```
